Hello and welcome.
We're going to look at this great thing called a blend space in this lecture and how it allows us to
smoothly move between different types of movement.
Let's dive in and see it in action.
So, as we said, these BLENDE nodes are not a very good way of doing animation with at least locomotion
animation, which is what we call this moving around animation.
So what is.
Well, fortunately, in Unreal, we have got an asset specifically designed for this kind of thing when
we want to blend between things in a two dimensional space.
It's called a two D Blende space.
So what we're going to do is go over to our content browser and create one of these, and then I will
take you over what it is, what it means and what's the point.
Got to add new animation and blend spacing and see, there's also a variant that is one dimensional.
We're going to be going for the two dimensional.
One reason being, we got two dimensions which are going to be the forward backwards dimension and the
left right dimension.
So let's go for that.
We've got to pick a skeleton that it needs to be based off.
That's going to be the Wraith skeleton.
And then the prefix is gonna be B.S. underscore.
And we're going to call it locomotion because it's all about moving our player around.
So we open up our locomotion assets and you can see that right off the bat.
It is a new editor.
Yet again, it's actually creating a new type of animation, is making animation out of other animations,
but it's still sort of an animation.
And you can see that's displayed in the top right.
We've got details for this asset which are currently empty.
We've got asset details over on the left.
I'm not quite sure what the difference is there.
I think the details over on the right might be to do with the animation selected.
We've got a skeleton tree if you need it.
But the main area is this middle one.
We've got a viewport and underneath it we have got this two dimensional graph.
And what this is saying is that we could put a value along the bottom, which might be our left right
and a value along the left, which is going to be up and down perhaps.
And then this green dot, we can move around to any position on here.
And what we'd like to happen is if I put it over to the top.
Right.
Then we move forward and to the right at top velocity.
If I put over the left, we move forward and left or down to the bottom.
We go backwards and left at full velocity.
And anywhere in between.
So that's the idea here.
We want to basically be able to move between these BLENDE spaces and we want to be able to choose an
animation and blend between it.
So what actually happens?
Let's see if we can bring in a walk animation.
I'm going to bring in a walk left animation, a walk right animation over to the right here.
And then we've got forward and backwards.
So let's to put a backwards down here and a forward up here.
And then you can move this little green dots and you can see that it starts moving forward.
If I go up, starts moving backwards, if I get down and going over to the left and to the right, it
is essentially working as we would expect it to be.
Anything that's looking a little bit weird is here in the middle where we're kind of stomping on the
spot because we don't have an idle animation.
So we do need to introduce that.
But before we do any of that, we've got these axes that are labelled as none.
That's not particularly useful.
What should their labels be?
How do we change them?
Let's have a look.
We need to go over into our assets.
Details here.
And there are axes setting.
So got a horizontal axis that's gonna be our left and right.
So I'm just gonna call this right.
And it's minimum value I'm going to put as minus one.
So going at minus one speed and maximum as plus one speed, we're going to update these based on the
actual values of the animations later on in the game.
Now, the vertical axis, I can go and edit to be forward.
And we're gonna go between minus one and one here as well, so minus one, two, one.
You can also select the number of divisions that you want in the grid.
Hey, we got four divisions.
But you could increase that if you want to put Animation's at different intervals.
And we'll be doing that later on as well.
So this is interesting.
And go forward and our left and right.
And I appear to have lost my little green nubbin there.
So I'm going to just close down the asset, hopefully bring it back up and see it again.
Make at the green nubbin is back.
So now I can go back forwards.
I can go back was left.
And right now we want this to actually be more complete so that we can run backwards.
So that we can run forwards.
We can walk forwards.
We can run left.
We can run right.
And we can have an idle animation in the middle.
Now, if we were to do that, we would find that we end up with a kind of cross formation.
And at these points in between, it wouldn't really know or behave very well.
So what we're actually and do is tweak these axes so that we get something a little bit different instead
of having right and forward, we're going to end up with having the angle.
And having the speed as the other dimension so that if we want to go backwards, you need to turn around
180 degrees on your angle and go at full speed.
So what should these values be?
Well, there should be a little bit different.
We're going to go from minus 180 to positive 180 on the angle.
Full circle.
And speed wise, we're gonna go from zero to it and let's say 100 for now.
And then how would we be laying out these different animations that we've just laid out in one way we
can lay them out differently.
We've got a backwards animation that's going to go at full speed at minus 180.
It's also going to go full speed up positive 180.
So that backwards animation needs to be in two places.
So let's find out.
Walk.
For backwards and put it in this other place as well.
Now I'm walking, right?
That's going to go.
Actually, that's a walking left animation that should go over at minus 180.
Our walking right.
Should go over ATAP positive 180.
And our full walk should go there in the middle.
And as I said, we do need some sort of idle animation.
So let's go and look for the Idol combat animation.
Has the gun raised, I believe.
So go for idle combat and we're going put idle combat all the way along the bottom here in each one
of these slots to make the blend a super clear that no matter what angle you're at, if you're idle,
you want to be stationary.
So let's try that.
I can now move my angle.
You can see I said start moving at a different angle, depending on where I bring that green nubbin.
And if I come down.
You can see it reduces my speed until I am idle.
So that's what it's doing, no matter where I start and I come up and it starts to move me over to the
left or to the right or wherever I am.
It is kind of making sense.
So my challenge to you is to complete this blend space.
We're gonna do that by adding JÖRG combat animations so that we can go faster as well as slower.
And where should they go in our scheme?
Whereabouts should they be put on this BLENDE space?
Post a video and have a go at that challenge.
Kay, welcome back.
So first of all, we're going to want to move down probably these blende spaces here, the walk left,
the walk forward and right, because we don't want the JÖRG animations to go at faster speed at the
top.
Then we're going to go ahead and look for add jog and we're going to look for it.
Should be some of them are JÖRG combat, I believe.
Let's try and find them somewhere in here.
He again has a whole section down below that combat comes at the end.
So it's not very easy to search for, unfortunately.
But if we go and look for it, we should have a jog forward combat.
They go put that in the middle.
We're gonna need a jog backward combat, whereas that jog backward combat that's gonna go over to the
right and the left foot rightful left.
And we're going to need a left.
So jog left.
Combat's going at minus one eighty or minus 90.
In actual fact.
And the jog.
Right.
Combat is going at plus 90.
And I just noticed I left a gap here where we had our walk backwards.
So that's fine.
Walk right, mouse button backwards over here.
And now we should be able to blend between these guys fairly accurately.
So going backwards, jogging backwards, jogging to the left, walking to the left.
My only problem appears to be that my idol animation has got all of this kind of looking to the left
and looking to the right business going on.
And if I go anywhere in between with this interpellation and exhibits frenetic.
So what I want to do here is actually find a different little animation.
I've used the wrong one.
So if we go, it's not idle combat that I want, but.
Right.
I think there's an idle ability.
Mouse button, which is more static.
So we'll go and bring that in over the top, which replaces we've bring over the top of those idle points
on our combat space.
And now you can see if I bring that green nubbin around, you can see we don't have any that frenetic
moving around.
We just got a very nice blend space that smoothly blends between our walk animations and stopped animations
and are running animations in any direction.
And that hopefully gives you an idea of why blends spaces are just so awesome at doing things like locomotion.
In the next lecture, we're gonna look at bringing this BLENDE space in to an animation, blueprints
and how to hook it all up.
See that?